Hi this is the Python API course on FreecodeCamp on Youtube
Um, this file is mainly just to outline and document in a sense what is going to and is happening in the course
Tech Stack:
    Python-Fastapi(Really fast and built with APIs in mind)
    -Has auto documentation and really fast API implementation
    SQL-Postgres(Who doesn't like elephants?)
    ORM-SQLALCHEMY(Most popular for Python)
APIs don't really have any visual way to show themselves(unless you want to verify HTTP packets)
Documentation can show more or less what an API does.

Project for the course is a social media type where users can use all of CRUD operations.
-Like posts, etc

Development Environment Setup:
-Install Python
-Install VS Code
-Setup Virtual Environment(Basically Like Docker, helps with keeping version consistency and prevents breaking from different versions)
    Two steps usually: VSCODE Selected Interpreter and The Terminal's Interpreter
    VSCODE Selected Interpreter:
    py -3 -m venv <name> : command for setting up a virtual environment in VSCODE.
    Afterwards select the Python intrepreter in the venv as the python exe from the command pallette
    Terminal's Interpreter:
    in the terminal, run the command:
    <current/project directory>/Script/activate or activate.bat for windows cmd/pwsh
    that command should let the terminal change the interpreter and if it works the venv's name should appear behind your prompt
    AFTER CLOSING VSCODE, do this or check to make sure that Vscode is pointing to the correct interpreter and also the terminal is pointing to the correct terminal
    Future or Past Me:
    "Use . test_venv/Scripts/activate to activate the venv for your project
     using ./test_venv/Scripts/activate creates a child process and is temporary so it does work but doesn't persist.
     Something to do with running a script in a new process versus using 'source' the '.' is the same as 'source'"

Running App in Fastapi: uvicorn main:app --reload (main is the name of the "main.py" so it could be anything, app is the name of the variable that stores the FastAPI() function so it could also be anything)
Running App v2: After creating a folder called app and using the __init__ file to make it into a python package
                the above command won't work so you will have to use:
                uvicorn app.main:app --reload // yes

You should read the FastAPI documentation for a clear overview of what's popping.

You don't or rather shouldn't need to build a frontend to test a backend, it's unscalable.
To solve this dilemma; you should use PostMan.

Postman:
You COULD use the browser for GET requests, but for other methods nono
Use Postman's different HTTP methods to test your routes in your API

VSCODE is saying the code is wrong, but the code is fine, this is cause Pylance or whatever doesn't know how FastAPI works.

Why you need schema:
-Pain to get values from body
-Client can send whatever they want
-Data isn't validated
-We need to force client to send data in a format we expect

When naming paths always use the plural
CRUD operations/methods
Create - Post
Read - Get
Update - Put(All)/Patch(One specific)
Delete - Delete

Path Parameters are always return as strings

GIT Tutorial: for 774th time
1. Open terminal in your FastAPI project

Example:

cd ~/Documents/Python\ Learn\ P2/fastapi-project

Check you're in the correct folder:

ls

You should see things like:

main.py
venv/
requirements.txt
2. Initialize git (if not already initialized)
    git init

Check status:

    git status
3. Create a .gitignore

Very important for Python/FastAPI projects.

Create:

    touch .gitignore

Put this inside:

venv/
__pycache__/
*.pyc
.env
.idea/
.vscode/

You usually do NOT want to upload your virtual environment.

4. Add files
    git add .
5. Commit
    git commit -m "Initial FastAPI project"

If git complains about username/email:

    git config --global user.name "YourName"
    git config --global user.email "you@example.com"

Then commit again.

6. Create a GitHub repo

Go to:
GitHub
Create a new repository.

Do NOT initialize it with:
    README
    .gitignore
    license
if your local project already exists.

7. Connect local repo to GitHub
GitHub will show commands like this.
Replace with your repo URL:
    git remote add origin https://github.com/USERNAME/REPO.git

Example:
    git remote add origin https://github.com/tumitarantino/my-fastapi-app.git

8. Push to GitHub
Main branch:
    git branch -M main
    git push -u origin main

You may get a GitHub login popup/token prompt.

9. Later workflow (after changes)
After editing code:
    git add .
    git commit -m "Added item routes"
    git push

That becomes your normal cycle.

Useful checks:

git remote -v
Shows connected GitHub repo.

git log --oneline
Shows commits.

git status
Shows changed files.

For FastAPI specifically, it’s also good practice to eventually add:
    pip freeze > requirements.txt

so others can install your dependencies with:
    pip install -r requirements.txt

DBMS- Database Management System
Don't wanna work with database directly
Popular DBMS
Relational
MYSQL, PostgresSQL, Oracle, SQL Server
Non-relational
MongoDB, DynamoDB, Oracle, SQL Server
In the course, we will use Relational Databases exclusively, specifically PostgresSQL
SQL is the language used to communciate with the DBMS

A table has columns and rows
Rows- represent different entries 
Columns- represent diffent attributes

Primary Key is a column or group of columns that uniquely identify each row in a table (Table can only have one)
The 'ID' doesn't have to be the primary key, the email column could be the key too.
A UNIQUE constraint can be added to a column to make sure that each entry is unique.
A NOT NULL constraint can be added to make sure the column entries are never null.

Around here we did SQL commands, I won't really type them here, butttt.....
<> is the NOT operator
LIKE checks for similar stuff and usually is used with Regex
INSERT INTO products (name, price, inventory)
VALUES ('Taco', 24, 3); if you want to more or less create a new entry into the products table
We need to add a postgres driver for python:
Psycopg is the driver we'll use to connect our (fastapi-> python -> Psycopg -> SQL database)
